Hello.
My name is SH Song, and I will be the instructor
for the lab session of this course.
The objective of the lab session is to show
you what are the key concepts of communication theory
through building a real communication system.
Before talking about what is a communication system,
let's first see what is communication.
So basically, communication is the process
where we transmit information from one position to the other.
For example, my talking with my friend is already a communication example.
You may have a question.
Since you can communicate with your friends
by using your natural equipment, why do we
want to build a communication system?
The answer is like this.
Because there are certain situations where we cannot achieve communication
by using our natural equipment.
For example, without Internet, there is no way
you can watch this lecture video at home, maybe in the US,
and now I'm delivering this lecture in Hong Kong.
So basically a communication system is a system
which can help us to transmit information
from one point to the other.
Now let's see what are the key components of a communication system.
For that purpose, we'll look at a daily communication example.
For example, I want to say "Hi Bert!",
to Professor Bert Shi.
So in my mind, I have the
information, "Hi Bert!",
I want to send the information to Bert.
How will I achieve this communication purpose?
Basically, I will use my transmitter, which is my mouth,
to create the sound wave.
The wave will propagate through the channel, which is the air,
and then arrives at the receiver, which are the ears of Professor Bert.
Bert can then recover the information from the received waveform by his ear,
and get the information "Hi Bert!" in his mind.
So through this process, we can see that a communication system in fact
has three components, the transmitter, the receiver, and also the channel.
In the lab, what we are going to do is, we
are going to achieve the communication between two computers.
Obviously, they don't have their transmitter and receiver.
So what we are going to do, we are going to use the universal software radio
peripheral board as the transmitter and the receiver of our system.
Basically, the board has several light emitting diodes,
which will generate infrared signals as the transmitter.
We also have several light detectors as the receiver.
Because the LED will generate infrared, so the channel we're going to face
is what we call infrared light channel.
Also, because we are going to use the on and off state of an LED
to transmit information, we can only transmit binary information
in our communication system.
So to summarize, through the experiments,
we shall understand the effect of the channel on our communication system.
We will build some communication protocols and techniques
to handle the issues caused by the channel.
And eventually we are going to evaluate the performance of our communication
system.