 
Hi.
I'm Professor Bert Shi of the Department of Electronic
and Computer Engineering at the Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology.
I'm sure many of you have one of this - a smartphone.
And through this one device we can do a myriad of different things.
We can talk to our friends, we can take pictures, watch videos,
surf the Internet.
Through this one device, we can access all kinds of information
and transmit information no matter where we are or what time of day it is.
Have you ever wondered how this works?
What are the limitations in communicating information,
and what are the types of techniques and tools
engineers have developed in designing these types of systems
to work as well as they do?
Well, over the next few weeks, I'll be discussing these issues with you
in detail.
 
Let's discuss what this class will be talking about overall.
Very generally, this course is concerned with the question
how do we transmit information wirelessly?
For example, suppose we have three people, and maybe the person
on the right hand side of the screen wants to talk to the person over here
on the left hand side of the screen.
How is that done?
In fact there may be multiple people, maybe
the person on the bottom part of the screen,
that also wants to talk to this person at a different time.
How can we establish those communication links
that all operate, really, over wireless communication channels?
In order to address this question what we've done
is we've broken this entire class down into three different parts
that we're going to address this problem and different components
of that question.
And so the way that we split the class up is shown in this slide here.
Where in part one, what we're interested in
is just what we call a point to point link-- red arrow here--
which is looking at how we can have what's
called a point to point communication system.
So in this case here we have a single user here
that's trying to communicate with this antenna, which
is something which we'll call the base station.
And these two things in our world, for this part one of the class,
are really going to be the only two things that
ever want to talk to each other.
It's from one point to another point.
Now of course what might happen is that you
might have several people in the same region
and they all want to make a telephone call.
And so this base station is really what's
maintained by the telecommunication network,
and many people, then, using their phones in the same area
might want to talk to the same base station.
And so in the second part of the talk, what we'll be looking at
is how can multiple users share one particular channel.
So in particular if the people are sitting here,
they're all close to that particular base station,
they're all going to be in the same general region,
they're all going to be transmitting their signals over the air,
so they're sharing that air channel.
What we want to make sure is that even if two people are talking
at the same time they're not crossing with each other,
so that for example whoever's receiving-- perhaps
this person is receiving-- is not hearing two people at the same time.
So how can we control the communication system to avoid that from happening.
And then the final part of the class, we'll be looking at the network.
And so in this case here we actually have
multiple what we call base stations that are all connected together.
So for example, this person might want to call this person over here,
or he might want to call this person over here.
And the pathway that he would want to do that communication
varies depending on who he wants to talk to and it also varies over time.
For example, this person might move from this location
over to some location over here, and the network
has to be able to adapt to that.
For example, when I'm in my car or I'm in a bus, as the bus is moving
I can maintain my communication with the users.
And so this kind of thing has to change dynamically.
And so what that means then is that if that person over there
is talking to this base station and he wants to talk to this person,
the message that he sends has to be sent over connections
between these different base stations to this base station over here.
And these base stations are all connected together
in a kind of redundant way, which means that we can really
send this information over different pathways.
And then the question we'll be asking there is, given the fact
that there are multiple pathways, how can we choose one pathway to go.
And perhaps some of these pathways are unreliable.
How will the system still work even in the case where
we may be dealing with unreliable links in order
to send information, hopefully, reliably?
Now in this particular part of the class,
we'll be focusing in then on just this one red link here, which
is the point to point link.
And in that case, remember, what we're doing
is we're talking about just a single source talking to a single destination.
Of course it could go both ways, but in our case
it's easiest to think about just one way communication,
and the other way is really just the reverse of that.
So in this case here, what we'll be talking about
is many, many different kinds of issues in this single source to destination
communication.
And we're going to be splitting this thing up
into a sequence of 11 different subtopics.
And the first part of the subtopics that we'll be talking about
are really these ones that are focusing on this link
over here, where what we're trying to do is take some kind of information
and send it to a remote location over something which is called the channel.
So for example, if I'm in the classroom, I
might be sending information over the air using my voice.
And in that case, there are several things
that might happen when I'm doing that.
For example, if I'm in a classroom situation,
even though I'm talking to you as the individual student,
some of your neighboring students might be doing something-- for example,
playing on their computers-- in which case
you might hear tapping of the keyboard, or they
might be talking to their friends, and whatnot.
And in that case here, you might get additional noise.
So we'll talk about the effect of noise on this channel
after we've discussed this initial link.
And what we'll see then is that the effect of noise
really is to introduce errors.
And so then what we'll do in the final part of the course
is really talk about well, if we have a system that
is prone to errors, how can we actually correct those errors to make
our overall communication system from the source
to the destination more reliable.
And so that's what we'll be talking about now
in the first part of the class: Point to point communication.