 
Today what I'd like to do is talk about the effect of noise,
where it comes from, and what we expect it to do to our communication channel.
So let's see where noise enters into our communication system.
So what we've said is that we have the input signal that's
encoded as a waveform, which is a constant value, either high or low.
And that passes through the linear time invariant
system that causes those quick transitions to kind of blur out.
And then at the receiver, we receive something.
And we saw that we could actually undo a lot
of the effects of that blurring of the transitions
due to the step response using the equalization.
And so using that, we were actually able to push the bit error rate down
to a very, very low level.
And so, in fact, the effect of this linear time invariant system
is really not the limiting factor in our communication system,
but it's really this additional effect that comes in, which is the noise.
And so where does this noise come in?
The noise actually comes in, at some point, additively into the channel
that we see over here.
And so the noise can come from a variety of different places
that we'll discuss a little bit later.
But one example you can think about is if you're at a party, somebody's
trying to talk to you, but there might be
other people trying to talk to you at the same time
or maybe talking to other people, and you overhear their conversations.
And so what you actually would receive, let's say, at your ear,
would be a mixture of what you're trying to receive from your friend talking
to you plus other conversations going around you.
And so those two things add together to give us our final received signal.
And so what we'd like to do now is think about, well,
what is the effect of the noise, and how does it
affect our communications system?
So let's first talk a little bit about noise in general
and where it comes from.
And like I said, noise is actually the fundamental limiter
in any kind of communications system that we have,
because other kinds of effects, if they're well known
and we can model them and understand them like we did before,
we can actually use that knowledge to compensate for those things.
And so, really, without noise, the complexity in this course
would be very, very low, and we would really
have no need to talk about this course at all.
And so noise, then, is something which is ubiquitous.
It happens everywhere.
And typically we think of the noise signal
as being something random or unpredictable.
And so something like a noise signal might
be something like this, where you can see
it really has no predictable structure in it.
Although there is, to some extent, something
predictable about this, because if you look at it, you can say,
well, that looks like noise.
But overall, generally speaking, the values of that
are somewhat unpredictable.
And so we've talked about this thing as being a random signal.
Now where does noise come from?
Well, noise, like I said, is everywhere, and it
occurs from a variety of different places.
So, for example, if we're talking about our mobile phone,
then, actually, the individual electronic components, things
like resistors, transistors, all of those things add noise to the signal,
even though it's what we use to process.
So the very process of actually measuring and manipulating the signals
that we have introduces noise.
Then there, like I said, might be other external influences of noise.
Those might be other users of the system who
are adding noise into the received signal.
But the idea is that resistors and devices
are going to add noise because of an effect called thermal noise.
So because these devices have atoms in there
and those atoms are actually moving, they're
going to disrupt the flow electrons flowing through them.
And that disruption is then going to cause
the noise that we observe in the system.
And so noise is ubiquitous.
Why is it so important?
Well imagine, suppose that we didn't have any noise.
If we didn't have any noise, then I would
be able to speak very, very quietly, and you would still
be able to hear exactly what I said.
In fact, without any noise, potentially, I
could just speak at a very, very low level,
and you would understand everything.
Of course, we don't do that, and we change the volume of our voice
depending on the situation.
And what is that situation?
Well, it's the amount of noise in the environment.
So, for example, if I'm in a quiet restaurant,
then I would tend to speak much quieter than if I'm at a big party
or at a bar with many, many people around me.
Then I would tend to speak very, very loudly.
And so the amount of noise around me really
determines what's the minimum level of signal that I can send to you,
or the volume that I'm speaking, that will
determine how well you can understand what I'm saying.
And it's exactly the same system, or same effect,
that occurs in a mobile phone.
So the noise determines the minimum signal
that can be decoded by radios and receivers
that we have inside our mobile phone.
Now, of course, I'd like to use as low a signal as possible
when I'm transmitting information, to save energy.
For example, after I go to a party, usually my voice is sore
or my throat is sore.
I'm tired, because I've been speaking very, very loudly.
And so in that case, we'd like to then avoid those large noise situations.
But of course, we can never avoid them completely.
And so what happens, then, is that if I'm speaking too quietly,
the noise, the bit error levels, will increase significantly.
And so what we'd like to do moving forward,
then, is understand how to model this, specifically
in the context of our communication system.