 
OK.
So let's now use that recursive channel model
to derive the equation for the equalizer.
And so, remember, our model of the channel given by the recursive model
says that the input and the output are related by this equation over here.
And so now, it's a fairly simple process, then,
to express the input of the channel in terms of the output
simply by inverting this equation.
So remember, what we'd like to be able to do
is we'd like to be able to isolate x of n.
And so, in order to do that, what we do is we take this term here
and we move it over here with a subtraction.
That gives us the subtraction over here.
And then we isolate the x of n just by dividing by one minus a times k,
as shown over here.
And so now we have an expression here that gives us
the input to the channel in terms of the output and the past output.
And what we'd like to be able to do now is then use
that equation for the equalizer.
Now, the important thing to remember, though,
is that this equation here is really only exact if the output of the channel
is related to the input exactly by this equation right here.
But there are many effects which might happen to cause that not to be true.
For example, there might be noise in the channel.
That's introduced later on.
Or, for example, we might have an incorrect estimate of a or k.
And that's going to cause the channel to have
a slightly different output than what's predicted over here.
And so therefore, this equation is not going
to give us the input, but rather some prediction of what the input is.
So I'm going to call that prediction x tilde.
Because it's not going to be exactly the same as the actual input.
So remember, last time what we talked about
was the idea that the equalizer is somehow
going to combine information about, not only the level of the output,
but also in terms of how the output is changing.
And so, how does this equation reflect those two effects?
And so, in order to do that, let's take that equation and then manipulate
it a little bit more to kind of separate those two effects out.
So, here is the equation that we just derived on the previous slide.
And we're going to do some simple manipulations to try
to separate these effects of the level of the channel and changes
in the channel.
So what I'm going to do in this line here is I'm simply going to add
and then subtract the same thing.
So I'm going to add an a times y of n.
And I'm going to subtract an a times y of n.
So I've just added and subtracted the same thing.
So there's really no change in the output here.
In the next step, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to combine these two together because they're both multiplied by a.
So I'm going to get a times y of n minus y of n minus one.
And then I'm going to take the whole thing
and multiply through by one minus a.
So when I do that this thing cancels out.
So I get nothing there.
And here I get a divided by one minus a.
And now, if we take this equation here that we have and look at it,
we can see that we've separated out the two effects.
This one here tells us what the channel output is,
or the level of the channel output.
And this one here is telling us how the channel is changing.
It's looking at the difference between the output of the channel now
and the previous output of the channel over here.
And these two things are then combined by adding them together.
And the coefficient that's determining the addition over here
is shown by this equation over here.
And that's plotted as a function of a, that's shown over here.
And so, intuitively, we can look at the two end points, when a is equal to zero
and when a is equal to one, to try to figure out what's happening.
So when a is equal to zero, if I stick a is equal to zero into this equation
over here what I'll get is zero.
And so, that makes sense because what that
does is it knocks out this equation, or that part of the equation over there.
And what it says is that the equalizer is just
going to look at the level of the channel.
Why does that make sense?
Well, remember when a is equal to zero it means
that the channel is changing very, very quickly.
In other words, if the input changes from zero to one,
the output will immediately change from zero to one.
And in that case, there's no intersymbol interference.
And I only need to look at the output of the channel
to figure out what the input was.
On the other hand, when a starts increasing,
what that means is that the channel is getting slower and slower.
And in that case, the level is not going to be
a very reliable indicator of the input.
And in that case, the changes in the output are going to be more important.
And so what we can see in this equation over here is that as a increases
the channel gets slower.
We start to increase the weighting on this second term over here, which
is reflecting the effect of the changes in the input on the equalizer.
So, now we can see that the equalizer, then, is combining information
about the actual channel output level and how the actual channel is changing.
That's the intuition we had.
But through this analysis that we've done,
we've actually been able to derive an equation that is, in some sense,
exact, if there are no unmodeled effects.
So, let's conclude then, with a short example
of how we could derive the equalizer.
So suppose that we have a channel which we know is linear and time invariant,
and it has this particular step response,
an exponential step response where the final value of the output
is going to be 1/2 and it's going to increase somewhat slowly.
Because the value of a is not equal to zero.
So this is not in the format that we had before.
The format that we had before was really this recursive channel model.
But this is the first model that we talked about,
the model 1.
And so, now what I'd like to be able to do
is then say, well, the first step is to try
to express this in terms of the recursive channel model.
So, in order to do that, we take the step response.
And from the step response we know that, in general, it has this format here.
And we can just match terms.
So, if we look at this equation here and match with that equation there,
we know that, well, k is equal to 1/2 and a is equal to 2/3.
Now, given that, what we can do is we can then say,
well, the recursive channel model is equivalent to that.
The recursive channel model says that the input and output
are related by this.
And we can simply take these two numbers here and insert them
into the equation over there.
And we get this equation down here reflecting
the relationship between the input and the output of the channel
using that recursive formula.
Now, given that, then, we can then find the equation for the equalizer
by inverting that recursive model.
So, from the previous page, we know that we
have this equation for the output of the channel in terms
of the input and the previous output.
And we simply then solve for x of n.
And that's a simple manipulation.
And we get this equation right here, which
gives us the input to the channel in terms
of the past output and the current output.