 
Hello, everyone.
It is time to summarize the lab session of this course.
The objective of the lab session is to help
you understand the key concept of communication theory
through building a real communication system.
What is communication?
Communication is the process where information
is transmitted from one position to another position.
What is a communication system?
A communication system is a system we build to achieve certain communication
purposes, which normally cannot be obtained by ourselves.
There are three key components in a communication system, the transmitter,
the channel, and the receiver.
Out of the three components, we have the freedom
to design the transmitter and the receiver.
However, the channel normally is out of our control.
So the major task for building a communication system
is to design the transmitter and the receiver
so that they can work together to handle the bad effect caused by the channel.
In this course, we handled two enemies for communication systems.
The first one is the distorted channel response.
The second one is the additive noise.
There are four channel effects, the time offset, the offset signal, the range
or the amplitude of the received signal, and the exponential channel response.
Then what are the problems caused by those effects?
Basically, the time offset will cause synchronization issues
for communication systems.
On the other hand, the offset signal and the range of the received signal
will make it difficult to set the decision threshold at the receiver
side.
Also the exponential channel response will cause intersample interference.
Then what are those solutions we proposed to solve those problems?
Firstly, we use the start and end bit to synchronize
the transmitter and the receiver so time offset is not an issue.
Secondly, we added training sequence to estimate the channel,
so the offset signal and the range of the received signal
are known to the receiver when citing the decision threshold.
Basically, we use the frame structure to handle the first three channel effects.
On the other hand, we use an eye diagram to measure the quality of the received
signal, and we proposed to use an equalizer
to handle the intersample interference.
The second enemy of our communication system
is the additive noise, which will cause bit error.
In this cause, we first observed the distribution of the additive noise,
and it was shown that Gaussian distribution is
a good fit for the distribution of the received signal.
Then, we used channel codes, including the repetition code and the parity
check code, to improve the performance of our communication system.
After implementing all those communication protocols or techniques,
we want to know how good they are, or, in other words,
how significant the performance improvement is.
For that purpose, we did performance evaluation
where we used bit error rate as the performance metric
to evaluate the performance of our communication system.
Now let's identify the position of each lab in our communication system.
Basically, in Lab 1, we introduced a simple communication example
where a text message is transmitted from one computer to another.
In Lab 2, we observed the four-channel effect of our IR channel.
Lab 3 handled the first three channel effects
by using some communication protocols.
Lab 4 evaluated the performance of our communication system
after implementing those communication protocols.
In Lab 5, we measured the quality of the received signal
by using an eye diagram.
In Lab 6, we proposed to use an equalizer
to handle the intersample interference.
Then Lab 7 considered the distribution of the received noise.
And Lab 8 evaluates the performance of our communication system
after adding the additive noise.
Finally, in Labs 9 and 10, we introduced the channel cods,
including the repetition code and the parity check code
to improve the performance of our communication system.
So basically, by now, you should be able to build up your own communication
system by using all those codes you have written in this course.
So does your communication system work well?
 