 
Hello, everybody.
Welcome to the lab demo.
In the previous lab demo, we have seen that we can use communication protocol
to handle the issue of synchronization and also channel estimation.
The next question is if we indeed implement all those communication
protocols, what kind of performance we can achieve.
In the system design of a communication system,
we call this performance evaluation.
The metric we use to measure the performance of a communication system
is bit error rate.
So in this lab demo, we're going to see how we can calculate the bit error
rate of our communication system.
For that purpose, we first generate the information sequence.
So similar to the previous lab demo, we are
going to use the command rand() to generate the information
sequence, which includes 1,280 bits.
Next, we set the parameter samples per bit to SPB equals ten.
And next, we generate the frame signal by using the command format_bitseq().
Now let's see what the transmit signal or the transmit frame
signal looks like.
 
So we can observe from the waveform, that the transmit waveform is quite clear.
Next, we are going to transmit and receive
the waveform by using the same board with the help of the reflection board.
So now, we transmit and receive the same waveform
by using the function txrx_ir().
 
OK.
Now let's see what the received waveform looks like.
 
OK.
If we put the transmit waveform and the received waveform together,
we can observe that the received waveform is distorted by the channel.
So all those distortions will cause us some error.
Let's see how we can calculate the bit error rate here.
So the first step, we try to recover the bit information
from the received waveform by using the command receive().
Next, we calculate the bit error rate.
We see a number, 0.0125.
What does this number mean?
This number tells us if we use our communication system,
we will obtain an average of 1.25 errors for every transmission of 100 bits.
Now let's see what is the effect of the parameter samples per bit.
To do that, we are going to only change the parameter samples per bit to 30,
and run exactly the same group of codes.
To save some time, I already put the code here.
So I copy the same set of codes, and execute them.
So basically, we have two observations.
First, by comparing the transmit and the received waveforms,
we can see that if we change or increase the parameter samples per bit,
the received waveform is much more improved.
And accordingly, we are going to have a better performance.
So you can see here the bit error rate now
is zero, meaning that we are not going to see any error from this communication
system.