Now that we know about discrete time waveforms,
we can use this to start describing the bit waveforms
that we're going to use in our communication system.
So if you remember, when we introduced the idea of the bit waveform
we did that in continuous time.
And we said that we were going to hold the physical variable constant.
I show you two levels here, zero and one, for a certain period
of time, which is known as the bit time.
Now when we go to discrete time, we have to do this sampling process,
and what that corresponds to is that we get
a certain number of discrete samples per bit,
which we're going to abbreviate by SPB.
And so in this case here, I show you that we're holding the discrete time
waveform constant for four samples per bit.
And so of course there should be a relationship
between four samples per bit and the actual bit time,
and that's what's shown on this next slide here.
Remember the bit time is the actual amount of time
that it takes to send one bit.
So this is time in seconds or some other measure of time.
And because we're going to send information or describe our waveforms
using discrete time, we're going to specify things
in terms of a certain number of samples per bit.
And so here I show you an example where we have a certain bit time,
and we're having four samples per bit, and the question
is how long is this bit time?
Well, in order to know that we have to know the actual sample period Ts.
And so here we notice that the actual bit time is then four times Ts,
or in general the bit time is SPB times Ts,
and we know that the sample frequency and the bit time
are inversely related to each other.
And so in that case we can substitute that inverse relationship in here
to get the bit time in terms of the sample frequency.
Now the other quantity that we'll be interested in
is really an equivalent quantity, but it tells us
how quickly we're transmitting information,
and that quantity is known as the bit rate.
And so that's the number of bits that we can send in a given unit of time.
And those two things are equivalent.
There's an inverse relationship between them as shown over here.
So the bit rate is one over the bit time, and what
that tells us is that the faster we want to transmit information--
in other words, the larger the bit rate-- the less time
that we can spend on each bit-- i.e. the smaller the bit time.
Now we can use the equations that we derived up here
and substitute them in here to get the bit
rate in terms of the samples per bit and either the sample period or the sample
frequency.
And in general what we'd like to be able to do
is transmit information as quickly as possible.
In other words, what we'd like is the bit rate to be large or equivalently,
the bit time to be small.
So let's take a look at a numerical example
to try to make things a little bit more concrete.
The key thing here is that we need to fix the sample rate first.
The sample rate is going to be something that
is going to determine how quickly our system is operating.
And for this class generally what we'll do is we're
just going to fix that arbitrarily to be one million samples per second.
It's a nice round number, and this is what
we're going to use for the remainder of the class.
But of course this could change depending
on your own particular application, but we're just
going to use this so that you can think just in terms of this
and there's not that much confusion.
What we can do is we can say, well, let's
take a look at this example of the four samples per bit,
and figure out what the bit time is and the actual bit rate.
And so the first thing, of course, we need to know is the sample period Ts,
and of course that is inversely related to the sample frequency.
And so if we have one million samples per second, then what we have is one
microsecond for the sample period, so just ten to the six versus ten
to the minus six.
Now in order to calculate the bit time, we
know that we're going to hold that bit for four samples,
and each of those samples takes one microsecond.
So therefore the bit time is four microseconds.
And then the bit rate is proportional to the sample frequency,
but it's divided by the number of samples per bit.
And so if our sample frequency is one megahertz or one million samples
per second, then dividing by four means that the bit rate is 250 kilohertz.
In other words, we're going to be transmitting 250,000 bits per second.