 
So what we see then, is that intersymbol interference, or ISI,
means that we have a large number of different responses or different
possible responses to a zero or one bit, depending on the past history.
What we'd like to be able to do is come up
with an easy way of visualizing the effect of ISI,
or intersymbol interference.
And the way that engineers have developed to visualize ISI
is called an eye diagram.
So what is an eye diagram?
Well, an eye diagram is a way of visualizing
the response of a channel in a slightly different way.
So what we've been used to looking at is something like this.
And so what we again see is a bit stream.
The input to the channel is represented in blue,
and the response to the channel is represented in black.
And in this case here, what I've done is I've also added a little bit of noise
to the channel to make the responses look a little bit more different,
even though the bit stream may be very, very similar.
And this is a way of getting us to distinguish
between different responses a little bit easier.
And so now, this is one way that we can visualize the response of the channel,
but in this case here, it's kind of difficult for us to imagine all
the different possible responses to a zero or one bit.
And so what the eye diagram does is it kind of summarizes
all the different possible responses in one graph, which is shown down here.
And the reason that this is called an eye diagram
is because if we look in this region over here,
we can see that we have this shape over here that looks kind of like an eye.
And in fact, very similar to the regular eye that we use to see,
what we always like to have if we want to have a very, very good system,
is we always want to have our eyes wide open.
And so what we'd like to see then in an eye diagram
is an eye, as shown here, that's very, very wide open.
Now what is this eye diagram, and how did we generate it?
Well the way that we generated this was we took this response over here,
and we actually overlaid different responses
taken from intervals that are about two-bit times long, or two SPB long.
So let's take a look at that construction in a little bit
more detail.
So suppose we have this input bit sequence shown
over here corresponding to the blue waveform as this.
So the input bit sequence waveform goes from zero to one and it's random.
And we're going to show you the response of the channel to the first two bits,
in this case here, the samples per bit is 10,
so two bits corresponds to 20 samples.
And we're going to plot that down here on this curve over here.
And now what we're going to do is we're going
to overlay the next response for the next two bits
on top of a graph that contains this one already.
So we're going to keep that one.
And then overlay the next response, as shown over here.
And then the next step then would be to repeat that step
and continue on by looking at the next two bits,
and keeping these two ones present.
And overlaying that one.
So now you can see that this one goes up and down,
and the red curve here goes up and down like that.
And so we just continue this process, taking the next two bits
and holding all the rest of them.
Taking the next two bits and holding all the rest of them, and so on.
And then finally what we get is we get a final eye diagram that looks like this.
And so now what we've done is we've taken all the possible bit waveforms
for the entire bit sequence that we have,
and just overlaid all the possible two-bit long sequences, or responses,
from that channel in order to generate this final eye diagram over here.
And so what we can see here is this nice white area here
that looks kind of like an eye, and what we want
is we want the eye to be as open as possible.
So when we say the eye is open, what do we mean by that?
Well there's two ways of measuring this kind of openness of the eye.
One is in terms of the height, which is the difference between the top value
and the bottom value over here, and we'd like
that to be as large or as high as possible.
And we also can measure the width, which is
the difference between this side on the right hand side
and the left hand side over here.
And we'd like that one to be as wide as possible.
And so then that means that the eye then is large,
or open, if these two values are very large.
So let's take a look at an example of when we have a relatively large bit
time.
In this case, let's make the bit time a little bit larger,
let's say samples per bit is 15.
And so when the samples per bit is 15, we
get an eye diagram that looks like this.
You can see here the height is very, very high or large.
And the width is also very, very wide.
So this is a very nice, big, open eye diagram, illustrating the fact
that you can see that there's really only kind of two
different responses to a zero and a one bit.
You can see that at least for a one, you can see
that you can either have this kind of response over here
that's very, very high all the time.
And this response is coming up like this.
So really only two responses to a one.
And down here on this side, two responses to a zero over here.
And this is just repetition of that over here, just to kind of complete the eye.
So we have one complete eye shown inside the diagram over here.
So then the amount of intersymbol interference then,
or the diversity of the responses, gets more as we decrease the bit time.
So let's take a look at a shorter bit time.
We're going to change the bit time to five.
And so now you see that when we change the bit time to five,
you can see that the eye has closed.
In fact, it's closed dramatically.
You can see the height is very, very narrow in this case here.
And the width is very, very short here.
So this corresponds to a closed eye.
And just like intuitively, you don't want
to walk around with your eyes closed, you
don't want to have a communication channel that has a closed eye.
Because what that means then is that the response to a zero and a response to a one
are very, very close to each other.
And so you can imagine that it's very easy for us to mistake a zero for a one
when we have a closed eye.
And so now you can see that in this case here also, in terms
of the response to the zero and one bit, you can
see there's a very, very large diversity of different responses
kind of filling up this entire region over here.
Whereas in the previous case where we had the much larger bit time,
you could see that there is a very clear distinction between this response here
and this response over here.
But once we go to a smaller bit time, then what happens
is we get a whole mess of different kinds of responses.
And the whole advantage of the eye diagram
then is to give us a way of visualizing all of those different responses in one
easy to understand curve.
So then summarizing, if we look at many, many different eye
diagrams for varying bit times, we can see
we start out here with very, very large bit times.
Samples per bit is 20.
So two samples per bit is 40.
And we go all the way down to over here, where
we have a samples per bit which is two.
So the width here is four.
two times two is four.
And so as we go from larger samples per bit, or bit times,
to smaller bit times, you can see that the eye slowly starts to close.
So you can see it if we just look at the height here.
The same thing holds true for the width.
But if we look at the height as we go to smaller and smaller bit times,
it gets short.
Smaller, smaller, smaller, and then finally here it's
basically disappeared in these two cases.
And you can see also that there's also this kind of narrowing
of the eye diagram for this one compared to here,
because what we're trying to do in this case, finally down here,
is to try to really drive the channel very, very quickly.
So you can imagine in the case where I was
talking about moving my hand up and down, if I try to change that bit
time to a very short bit time in this case here,
this slow motion might correspond to this bit time over here.
But if I try to drive it very, very, very,
very quickly, you can imagine that what will happen
is my hand will eventually get stuck in the middle.
And that's really corresponding to this kind of narrowing
that we see in this final version over here,
when we have a very, very short bit time.
So then what we've seen then in this small part of the lecture
is that the eye diagram is a way of visualizing
the effect of intersymbol interference, and showing that as the bit time gets
smaller and smaller, than for the same channel,
the intersymbol interference increases, and that
corresponds to a closing of the eye.