Let's take a look at some numerical examples using the bit error rate
formula that we just introduced to try to build some intuition about the way
it works and what it means.
So in this first example, let's look at an actual input/output data stream
from the binary channel.
So here I give you a sequence of input bits, ones and zeros, 25 of them.
And I show you the corresponding outputs.
And ideally, what we'd like to have is we'd like to have the input bit
and the output bit be exactly the same, 1, 1; 1, 1; 0, 0, and so on.
But unfortunately, there are three cases where the input and the output
are different, 0, 1; 1, 0; and 1, 0.
So we have three bit errors in this case out of a total of 25 bits
that we've transmitted.
And so by definition then, the bit error rate is three divided by 25 or 12%.
Now, let's look at how our formula works in this case.
Well, if you remember, what we had was we
had the binary channel model that looked like this.
And we have to assign probabilities to each one of these paths.
So let's take a look at this first path.
This first path is telling us how many times do we
we enter through the zero pathway.
And so in order to do that, we look at the input here
and we count how many times it's actually zero.
So we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
So there's eight times the input is zero out of a total of 25.
And so, therefore, the probability that input is equal to zero is eight divided by 25.
And since the rest of them are all ones, the probability
that the input is equal to one is then 25 minus eight, or 17 divided by 25.
Now let's take a look at the probability of these pathways over here.
Now, these pathways remember, assume that we're already on the zero pathway.
So in computing that probability then, we're
only interested in these eight instances where we had the input being zero.
And then we want to know, well, how often out of those eight instances
did we go down this path here?
And so what we can see is that, well, in this case here,
there's only one out of those eight instances
where we went down the wrong path and came out to one.
And so, therefore, the probability of going down
this path, assuming we're already on here, is 1/8.
And since the two things must add up to one, the other probability is 7/8.
Similarly, we can look at the bottom path here.
And we're on that one 17 times.
And then out of that, only two of them you can see take the wrong path.
So it's two out of 17 and 15/17 for this pathway here.
And then we can then combine them by multiplying this times this
and adding it to this times this.
And so we do that.
We have Pe0 times P IN is equal to one.
So we have 1/8 times eight divided by 25, 2/17 times 17 divided by 25.
And so you can see the eights cancel here.
So I get 1/25.
The 17s cancel over here.
So I have 2/25.
And so in total I get 3/25, which is exactly the same answer
that we got over here by doing the numerical counting.
So that gives you some idea about the way the formula's working
and how we can actually assign probabilities if we actually
have input/output data from the binary channel.
And this is certainly one way that you can
measure the performance of a channel.
Now let's try to look at that formula that we got
and try to build some intuition about what does that formula really mean.
So here's the formula that we gave you.
The bit error rate is equal to this times this, plus this times that.
And of course, students are really happy when
they see a formula like that because once you see a formula,
you can memorize it.
And then you can stick numbers in and plug it right into a calculator
and get a nice number.
And then everybody's happy.
But when you look at a formula, what you should really be trying to do
is understand, well, what is this formula telling us about the system?
What intuition can we build from that formula
and from looking at that formula, because that formula is really
not just something you plug into your calculator.
It's really a language or statement in the language of mathematics.
And so if there's a statement, it should be telling us something.
So what is this formula telling us?
Well, if we look at this thing, remember that P IN is equal to zero
and P IN is equal to one, those two things must sum to one.
So maybe 50% and 50%.
So in some sense, we can think of this thing, the bit error rate
as being an average between Pe0 and Pe1.
In fact, it's a weighted average.
If it's 50-50, then it's exactly the average, right?
But otherwise, if it's 20-80, then it's going to be a weighted average.
And so it's going to be closer to Pe0 or Pe1,
depending on the relative values of P IN is equal to zero and P IN is equal to one.
So for example, if P IN is equal to one is 100%,
what that means is that I'm never on this path.
I'm always on this path.
And so what's the probability of the bit error?
Well, the bit error rate must be given then by just this one path over here,
because I'll never have a chance to take this one over here.
And so in that case, the probability of error or the total bit error rate
would be Pe1.
And that makes sense because this would be zero.
And this is one.
And so I get this times zero.
And then I would only get Pe1.
Similarly, if this was one, I'm always on this path here.
And then my probability of error overall, the bit error rate
would be Pe0.
And so in between that, if I have something
in between these two things, not one or zero, then you
would get something that's in between Pe0 and Pe1,
but closer to Pe0 if P IN is equal to zero is bigger and closer to Pe1
if P IN is equal to one is bigger.
So then given that intuition, we can then
approach problems in a more intuitive way
because we have now an understanding of not just how to apply this formula
but what it actually means.
So let's try to apply that intuition in a real numerical problem.
So in this problem here, I'll show you an equation that as students we'd
be very happy to see because I give you all the numbers here.
And you know there's a formula that relates these numbers to the bit error
rate.
And so you could just remember that formula,
stick the numbers into your calculator, and compute the answer.
And you'd get some number on your calculator
and put it down on the exam sheet.
And it would be over.
But let's think about this and say, well,
before we even do that, before we even touch our calculator,
can we come up with a prediction about what the bit error rate is going to be?
So remember, when do we get errors?
We get errors when we go down this pathway over here.
And those two pathways are labeled with probabilities 20% and 30%.
And just remember the bit error rate has to lie somewhere in between those two
values of 20% and 30%.
So now what we've done is we've already taken our range of possible bit error
rates, which was 100%, and narrowed it down to 20% to 30%.
So now you know, if you put in the numbers
and you get some number like 80%, you realize,
oh, I must have done something a little bit wrong because what's
on my calculator doesn't match with my intuition.
So we have this range here of 20% to 30%.
But now within that range of 20% to 30%, what do we expect?
Is it going to be 21%?
25?
27?
Do we have a guess about where it's going to be in that range?
Well, that's going to depend then on how often I'm actually on this path
or on this path over here.
And so I'm on this path here 60% of the time versus 40% of the time here.
So I'm on this path more often.
And so what that means, that I'm going to be more weighted
toward making this type of error than making this type of error.
And so then what you'd expect then is that you
should be closer to 20% than 30%, right?
So now we can say, well, we've actually narrowed it down even further.
We've narrowed it down from 20% to 30% because now I
know I'm going to be closer to 20%.
So now I've narrowed it down to 20% to 25%.
And so I've narrowed it down, just based on my intuition.
And now you can kind of look at the numbers
and say, well, I'm going to be kind of like 60% closer to 20 than to 30.
And so maybe it's going to be 24.
OK, so that was without even touching our calculator, plugging in equations.
So we got this guess of 24.
Now let's check on whether or not that guess is actually correct.
So let's plug it into the formula like good students that we are.
And so here's the formula.
I'm going to simply take these values from the chart here,
so 20%, 60%, 30%, and 40% over here.
I get 0.2 times 0.6 or 0.12.
0.3 times 0.40 is 0.12 and 24% just like we predicted without even having
to touch our calculator.
And so from this then we've used these kind of examples
to try to build up some understanding about what this bit error rate
calculation means.
And in summary, what we need to do in order to predict the bit
error rate is the probability of input equal to zero, and then
if we know that, we can predict what this one is because it's just
going to be one minus that, and these two probabilities over here.
Now it turns out that, in fact, most of the time
these things are not set by the channel.
These are set by the transmitter.
So the transmitter decides whether to transmit zeros or ones.
And so the thing that the channel really determines is Pe0 and Pe1.
And that's going to depend on things like the transmission
level, the amount of noise that occurs.
And we're going to look at that a little bit later on.
Now, so usually, we're going to make an assumption about these two
things here because it's determined by the transmitter.
Usually we assume that it's actually 50-50.
It might not be.
But usually, that's a pretty good assumption.
And the reason that that is a good assumption
is because that's kind of the case where the transmitter's kind
of transmitting the most information.
And to kind of get some intuition about that,
you can kind of think about the two extremes.
Suppose that we are at some extreme case where it wasn't 50-50,
but maybe it was zero-100.
Now, if it's zero-100, then, in fact, what happens
is that I don't even have to look at the output of the channel
to know what the channel's saying because I
know that every time the channel says something it's always one.
So no matter what happens, it's always one.
It's just like when you see your friend.
And every time that you see him, he always tells you the same joke.
Then the joke's no longer funny.
It's not carrying any novelty.
And so what you want to do is always see something new.
And so that occurs when the situation is that the probability of input is equal
to one and input equals to zero is exactly equal at 50%.
So then before moving on, let's summarise then.
What we've talked about in this topic is the idea
that noise is really the critical and fundamental limit in our communication
systems.
And so without noise, really there would be no need for this course
because there'd be really no difficulty in communication.
And so we started our analysis, in this case,
by considering this binary channel model where
we assumed that the input and output just had two possible values.
And then we used probability theory to finally get an expression for the BER.
And the key point now is that the dependency of the channel
is really going to enter through Pe0 and Pe1.
And so moving forward, we're going to have
to look at how the signal levels and the noise affect those two probabilities.