 
Hello, everybody.
Welcome to the lab demo.
In a previous lab demo, we have seen that by increasing the samples per bit,
we can achieve a better performance.
Since the parameter samples per bit corresponds to the bit duration for one
bit, basically it means we can achieve a better performance
if we increase the bit duration.
The reason is a longer bit duration will
handle the exponential step response better.
So in this lab, we are going to use eye diagram
to understand why that phenomenon happened.
So we are going to generate an eye diagram of the received signal.
For that purpose, we first generate the information sequence.
So similar to the previous lab demo, we use the function rand
to generate the information sequence which has 1,280 bits.
Next, we set the parameter samples per bit to SPB equals to 30.
Given the sampling frequency is one megahertz.
This means the bit duration of each bit is 30 microseconds.
Now we generate the frame signal by using this sample per bit equals 30.
So here the transmitted waveform is the frame signal.
Now, we are going to transmit and receive the same frame signal
by using this board with the help of the reflection board.
 
OK, so we transmit and receive the waveform.
Now let's see what the received waveform looks like.
So we can observe that the received waveform includes both the training
sequence and the information sequence.
To generate the eye diagram, we should only consider the information sequence.
So the next step, we will try to identify the position
where the information sequence starts.
 
So for that purpose we use the function find_start.
So this function will help us identify the location
where the information sequence starts.
After that, we can generate the eye diagram.
 
OK, so this is the eye diagram.
Why we call it an eye diagram is because it resembles our eye.
And basically the wider the eye, the larger the difference
between the two signal levels we use to represent bit zero and bit one.
Obviously a larger difference between the two levels
will give us a better performance.
So now let's see what is the effect of the parameter
samples per bit on the eye diagram.
For that purpose, I'm going to decrease the parameter SPB to 15.
To save some time, I already got the code here,
so I'm going to execute the same code.
The only difference is we change the parameter SPB here.
 
So after executing the new code, we got a new eye diagram.
So basically if we compare the two eye diagrams,
we can observe that a larger SPB will give us a wider eye,
and obviously a larger difference between the two levels
we use to represent bit zero and bit one.
And in turn, this will give us a better performance.