Today, what we'll be talking about is continuous
versus discrete time waveforms, and this is an important aspect
when we start talking about the way that we're
going to model the waveforms that we're sending through our communication
channel.
So let's take a short review.
In the last lecture, we looked at representing bit sequences
as waveforms.
And so what you saw is that the way that we represent a bit sequence
is by holding the value of a physical variable
constant for a certain amount of time, and that's known as the bit time.
And as the bit sequence changes, the waveform
changes because the physical variable changes from,
let's say, the light being on versus being off,
and so this might be light intensity on this axis in time.
And then we saw that, by changing the bit time, what we can do
is we can change the rate at which we send information.
And so in this case over here, what we've done is we've taken the bit time,
and we've divided by a factor of two.
And so in this case here, we can send twice as much information
over the same time period as we did before.
Now, when we start talking about describing these waveforms,
we'd like to start developing mathematical expressions
for these waveforms, and most of the expressions
that we're going to be developing in this class
are going to be based on a discrete time representation.
And so I'd like to start talking about discrete time and continuous time,
so let's start out with an example that's taken from the weather.
And here in Hong Kong, we have the Hong Kong Observatory,
and they take regular measurements of the temperature.
But this is the actual temperature that we have,
and this is what's called a continuous time waveform.
And the reason it's called a continuous time waveform
is because, at any point in time, we can make a measurement,
and it doesn't really matter what time we do it.
So in this case here, at any point in time, we have a measurement
or we can make a measurement of the temperature.
But the problem is that the Hong Kong Observatory can't be continuously
recording the temperature all the time, and so what it does is,
instead, it takes regular measurements at certain periods of time.
And so in this case here, I show you those measurements
that were taken from here, and in this case,
we're assuming that maybe the Hong Kong Observatory takes the measurements once
every two hours, so eight o'clock, ten o'clock, midnight, two o'clock, and so on.
And so this is called a discrete time waveform
because the temperature value is only known
at discrete, or discontinuous, points in time,
and the process that we go from a continuous time to a discrete time
is known as sampling.
I illustrate the sampling process here.
The first thing we need to know in the sampling process
is something which is called the sample period, which I denote by Ts,
and so in the previous example, the sample period
that we used for the Hong Kong Observatory was two hours.
It takes a measurement once every two hours.
And so once we know the sample period, then we also
know the times at which the samples were taken.
So for example, if we start by sampling at time zero,
then the first sample will be time Ts, 2Ts, 3Ts, 4Ts, and so on.
Now, in many cases when we're analyzing the waveform mathematically,
we don't really need to worry about the sample
period of the exact value of Ts, and so in that case, what we'll do
is we'll simplify the problem a little bit by using an index notation, which
I'll denote here by x(n).
And so in this case here, the n denotes the index or the sample number
that we're talking about.
And so this assumes only integer values, and at index zero,
it corresponds to the sample at time zero.
Index one corresponds to one times Ts, two times Ts, three times Ts, and so on.
Of course, we'd also like to go backwards from discrete back
to continuous time, and I'll talk about that next.
So when we go from discrete to continuous time, what
we'd like to be able to do is take the measurements that we have,
which are shown by these circles here, and get a continuous time waveform
that's, hopefully, close to the original waveform that we had.
So the original waveform that we had is shown by this red waveform over here,
and of course, we can't get that back exactly because what we have is
we've lost information.
And so I'll show you one way that we can get a continuous time waveform that
is hopefully close to the original continuous time waveform,
and that's called a zero-order hold.
And what we'll do is we'll start out at time zero, and at time zero,
we actually know the value of the waveform.
So we'll say, OK, that's the value at time zero.
And now, we don't know what the value of the waveform is,
but we can imagine that if the waveform's changing slowly,
then it should be close to that.
And so one thing we could do is just hold that value for this time
until the time Ts, and then we can update it
and hold it for this point in time here and hold it for this point in time
here.
And we get this blue waveform that's defined for all points in time,
but the disadvantage is it's not that close to the red waveform anymore.
Of course, it will never be because we've lost information.
Now, you can think of there's other ways that you
might be able to do this process.
For example, you might try to connect the dot from here
to here with a straight line, and you can imagine that,
if I did that, then I would get a continuous time waveform that's
much closer to the red waveform.
Of course, the disadvantage of that is that,
in order to do that, I have to know not only the value here but also the value
here.
So I have to know two values in order to compute that line,
and so that's going to be a little bit more complicated.
And so in many cases, we don't really do that.
We just do the simple zero-order hold.
But there's another way that we can actually go and make
this waveform closer to this one, and that
would be by increasing the amount of samples that we have
or by decreasing the sample period.
And so in that case, what we can do is we can say, for example, take this Ts
and divide it by two, so we get a sample here, here, here, here.
So we get one sample in between every of the existing samples,
and if we did that, we would have half the sample period,
but we would have more information.
And so if we try to reconstruct the waveform from that,
you can imagine that we would go and, halfway along here,
we'd have new information.
And so we could then update that and go to here and update that and then
go to here, and now if we do that, you can
see that the waveform that we get when the sample period is
half of what's shown here, would be a closer value.
So when we start talking about sampling, we have to start talking about then
how often are we sampling, and there's two ways that we can do that.
One is in terms of what I talked about before, the sample period.
The sample period, remember, is the time in between two samples,
and so in the temperature example I gave you before,
that sample period was two hours.
The other way you can talk about the sampling process
is through the sample frequency, and the sample frequency
tells us how many samples we take in a fixed period of time.
So for example, for the Hong Kong Observatory example,
if we have one day, which is 24 hours, and we sample every two hours,
you can easily calculate that corresponds to 12 samples per day.
And so the sample frequency then is measured in a different kind of unit.
Instead of a unit of time, something like seconds or hours,
we measure it in terms of Hertz, where Hertz
is the number of samples per second.
Because these are two equivalent ways of measuring how often we sample,
there's a relationship between those two, which is given by this one.
It's just an inverse relationship, and to give you an example of that,
let's take the example here where we're dealing in seconds.
And so when we're dealing in seconds, I'm
going to take an example of the sample period of 0.2 seconds,
and then we can say, well, how many samples
do we get in the period of one second?
And we can just simply count that, one, two, three, four, five.
We get five samples inside there.
We can also use this formula here, where we take one sample over 0.2 seconds,
and we find that we get five samples per second, or five Hertz.
The next thing I'd like to talk about is how many
samples does it take in order for us to measure
a waveform over a particular period of time.
So when we take a particular period of time, let's say Tw,
we'd like to know, well, if we're sampling, let's say,
at a sample period of Ts, how many samples does it take?
And so for example, when we said before Tw is 24 hours
and the sample period was two hours, we knew that I could just take 24 hours,
divide it by two, and I got 12 samples in one day.
And I could do that, and I could say, well, suppose my sample length here
was one year, 365 days, then I would have 365 times 24 on the top here.
One sample per two hours-- or two hours per sample, and I
would get 12 times 365.
Another way I can do that calculation is in terms of the sample frequency
because, remember, the two are equivalent,
and I can simply replace the one over Ts here by the sample frequency.
I can get this equation right here.
And so what this tells us, then, is that the number of samples
that we require to store for a particular length of time
is proportional to the sample frequency, and that, then,
brings up this idea of a tradeoff.
I talked about before, when we were looking
at the difference between the reconstructed waveform
and the original waveform, that we'd like to take more samples per unit
time, so we'd like to have a larger sample frequency.
So the larger sample frequency then gives us a closer reconstruction
because less information is lost because we've had less time between samples.
So for example, you could imagine that a better set of records for the Hong Kong
Observatory would be to take one sample every hour,
or maybe even one sample every half hour or one sample every minute
or something like that.
What's the disadvantage of doing that?
Well, if you increase the sample frequency,
or how quickly you're sampling, you're increasing the amount of data
that you need to store.
And so for example, for those of you who are dealing with music on a daily basis
through your smartphone, you know that the storage on your smartphone
is limited, and so you'd like to be able to store as much music as possible
on your smartphone, and you'd also like to get
the best sound quality as possible.
So that somewhat suggests that you should have as high a sample
frequency as possible to get the best sound quality, but at the same time,
this increase in the number of samples you need to store on your phone
would mean that you could store less songs.
So that's the tradeoff-- better sound quality versus fewer songs.