 
Now that we know what the discrete time channel is,
we'd like to start describing that channel.
And in order to do that, we need to know, well,
what are the kinds of things that might happen to the signal
as it goes over the channel?
So here are some possible effects of the channel.
So I show you here the input on this side and one possible output
of the channel over on the other side, just graphically.
And so some of the things that you might see, for example,
would be that there's an attenuation.
So you can see here the change between the high level
and the low level over here is a very large change.
But you can see that the change here between high and low
is a little bit smaller.
So that's a decrease in let's say the amplitude of the signal.
And that might be caused by various different effects.
The other thing you can see is a delay.
For example, here, you can see that the channel starts out here
with a high value right away, but over here it doesn't show up on the channel
until this point over here and then the signal starts changing.
The other thing is that there's an offset.
So you can see here the channel here is at zero,
but now there is a level here which is not
zero, which is the lowest level of the channel over here.
And then the other thing you can see is that there
is a blurring of the transitions.
And so what we mean by that is that this waveform over here
makes transitions at regular intervals between one and zero.
Those are determined by the bit rate or the number of samples per bit.
In this case, it's five.
So every five samples, it has the possibility of making a change,
but that change is instantaneous.
But we see over here that that change is not instantaneous over here.
It takes some time to do that over here.
And then the final thing that we can see is
that here we have a very, very straight waveform, either constant one
or constant zero.
And here we see that even when it's staying at zero,
there's some small fluctuations over here.
And so what cause these kinds of effects are really the nature of the channel.
And so we can understand this from an electronic point of view,
but there are many other kind of analogies that we can use.
For example, if I'm trying to transmit information,
I might transmit information physically using my hand.
And what I can do is for a zero bit, I can hold my hand here.
And for a one bit, I can hold my hand here.
And so what might cause the attenuation?
Well, depending on where I am, for example, if I move farther back,
even though I'm moving my hand up and down by the same amount, what you're
seeing actually is a smaller change in the motion of my hand.
Because you can imagine, if I went out about a mile away,
the change in my hand would almost be imperceptible.
Actually, it would be imperceptible.
So the properties of the channel, for example, the distance,
might cause that attenuation in amplitude.
But let's just take a look at the other thing.
There's a delay.
For example, the delay might be caused by the fact
that I'm recording this now, but you're not
getting the signal until much later in time.
The other thing that would happen is that there's an offset.
So for example, if I'm holding my hand here, I'm not holding my hand at zero.
There's some offset or distance from my hand, let's say to the floor,
if I was going to call the floor zero, or from the sea,
depending on what floor I'm on.
There might be some offset there.
So that would cause an offset.
And finally, the fact that I cannot move my hand instantaneously,
takes me some time for me to move my hand up and down causes this kind
of blurring of transitions.
And the fact that I can't really hold my hand completely steady
might add some additional fluctuations in the level over there
that will cause the noise.
And so what we'd like to be able to do is given
these properties of the channel, we'd like to model these mathematically.
And so what we'd like to be able to do then
is come up with a way of describing, if I know x of n, a formula for x of n,
can I get a formula for y of n?
And it turns out that modeling three of these effects, attenuation, delay,
and offset is relatively easy to do.
And so we're going to define k to be attenuation.
Instead of transitioning from zero to one, I'm
going to transition from some low value up to some high value.
And the difference between these two values is not one, but some value k.
And typically, like I said, the value k might be less than one,
because what you're going to get is slightly smaller than what I sent.
The delay here is going to be this wait
before the signal transitions from zero to one.
Instead of occurring at zero, it occurs at some time, d.
And the offset will then just be this constant value here, c.
And so it turns out that if I know x of n,
I can immediately write an equation for y of n, if I know k, d, and c.
And that equation is shown down here.
And this is based on some of the things that we've seen before,
adding and subtracting of different waveforms.
And so c here is just a constant value.
So for any value of n, the value of c is constant.
So that's always going to give you a constant value
of c that's shown over here.
But the waveform itself is not actually constant,
it actually changes up and down, depending on x whether it's zero or one.
But now what I can do is, I can say well, if I take x, I know what x is,
then it's going to start changing after some delay.
And I already know from our work with the unit step,
how to delay a function.
I can delay it by simply replacing n by n minus d.
And that will give me a delay, in this case, of four.
Now what I can do is I can put in a multiplication here by k,
and that's going to give me a scaling.
So instead of going from zero to one, I'm going from zero to k.
And when added to this, I'm going to get a value here, which is c plus k.
So that's three of the effects of the channel.
But the one that's going to be more difficult to model
is the blurring of the transitions.
And so this is really caused by the physical properties of the channel,
for example, whatever is causing the physical waveform.
So for example, if I'm moving my hand from here up to here.
Then system that's doing that is the transducer.
It's converting, let's say, signals from my brain
into signals that are going to my muscles.
And those muscles have a certain limitation,
I can't move infinitely fast with my muscles.
And that's going to cause that delay or that blurring of the transition
from zero to one.
From an electronics point of view, there might
be limitations in the electronics.
The physical medium itself might cause some kind of blurring itself.
For example, if I'm in a room and there's a lot of echo in the room,
there might be echoes because of that.
And also on the receiver side, there might be some limitations over there.
So these are really physical properties of the channel
that we need to describe.
We call a channel where the output cannot change instantaneously,
a bandlimited channel.
What I'd like to do now is show you visually
what the effect of the bandlimited channel is
and give you some intuition about how that
affects the rate at which we can transmit information.
So here, I show you an input here which is zero and one,
and I'm only looking at the effect of the changes in transition.
So there's no offset or attenuation.
You can see here that instead of going immediately from zero up to one,
it takes some time to get up there, but eventually gets there, or at least
close to there, when we wait long enough.
But if we try to then transmit information faster,
we're not going to be able to wait this long to transmit a zero,
and this long to transmit a one.
Maybe we can only wait half as long.
So for example, here, instead of waiting, let's say,
40 time seconds to transmit zero then one, we're
going to do the whole thing in 20.
And then do the same thing again.
And so what you can see here is that I'm still going to get close to the top,
but I don't have as much time.
And if I try increasing the rate at which I'm transmitting information,
you can see here that I'm going to start moving,
and I'm not going to get to the limits.
And so for the physical model that we talked about, what you can imagine
is that I'm going to try to transmit information
by moving my hand up and down.
And as I try to change my rate at which I'm transmitting information,
I'm going to try to move my hand up and down faster and faster and faster.
But if I try to move my hand really fast,
you can imagine that because of the fact that I'm limited by my muscles
I'm going to get stuck here somewhere in the middle.
And that's exactly what we're seeing with this kind of compression
of the output here.
So that it doesn't cover the same range as we had in the previous ones
where I was transmitting the information relatively slowly.
And so if I have more complicated waveform, and this is the type of waveform
that you might expect to see from this bandlimited channel.
And so moving forward, what we'd like to be able to do
is given that we can describe this input here--
we know how to do that in terms of unit steps--
can we somehow come up with an equation for this waveform down here?
And it turns out we can do that if we assume
that the channel is linear and time invariant.