 
In this final topic, I'd like to discuss and review the key concepts
that we've talked about over this first part of the course.
In this part, I'd like to talk about the importance of the communication
protocol and the ways in which we measure
the performance of our communication system.
So in this first part of the course, what we've discussed
is how we can send information from a single source to a single destination.
What we've seen is that the source encodes information
that it wants to send as bits.
It sends the bits through this stream that we've discussed.
And the destination received some bits and tries to decode the information.
And ideally in our communication system, the
sent bits are exactly the same as the received bits.
Now in order for this to happen, the source and the destination
must agree on certain things.
And those agreements are called the communication protocol.
And, in fact, communication protocols or agreements
are required in any kind of communication system.
So, for example, this online course is a form of communication.
I have a certain amount of information that I want to send to you.
In order to make sure that that communication is effective,
we have certain protocols-- for example, what language I'll
use in the lectures, where or what website
you'll be able to access the lectures, and the approximate timing in which
new information is going to be released.
In a very similar way, the data communication system
that we've talked about also relies upon agreements
between the sender and the receiver.
These cover all aspects of the communication system.
For example, one of the things we need to agree on
is how we actually represent symbols.
And so here we talked about the idea of sending a text message which
consists of letters and numbers and punctuation, marks
and things like that, and we need to represent
all of those using bit sequences.
There are different ways of doing that.
The one we talked about was Ascii, but, for example, in the world wide web now,
the Unicode standard is quite common.
We can use either one as long as the sender and the receiver agree.
When we're sending binary data, we might decide
to send the least significant bit first or the most significant bit first.
And, again, as long as the agreement is in place, communication can occur.
Another aspect that you need to agree on is the length of the frame.
The analogy I gave you here was that if I'm giving you a semester long course,
usually I take that information and I break it up into smaller chunks,
which we call lectures.
But in our analogy here with the data communication,
those would be the frames.
And so the lectures are usually a fixed duration of time
so you know how long you need to listen for.
And in our data communication system, the frames
are usually a fixed number of bits long so
that the receiver knows how long to listen for.
When we're sending information in a wireless communication system,
the transmission is typically not scheduled.
For example, when I'm using my mobile phone,
I might initiate a call at any time.
And so most the time the receiver might be idle,
but it needs to know when the transmitter is sending information.
The analogy here I gave you was that perhaps we're
walking down the street many, many people are walking past us.
Most of them don't want to communicate with us,
but, for example, somebody might have a question, they're lost or something,
and so they want to initiate communication.
And so they'll usually do something before they actually ask our question.
For example, they might try to attract our attention
by saying hello or making eye contact.
And so that's kind of like what we talked about as the start bit.
Most of the time in our data communications system, the line is idle
or nothing's happening.
But when we want to send information, we would
send a single one bit that would indicate
to the receiver the transmitter now has some information to send.
Another aspect we discussed was the idea that individual bits
must be represented in some way.
We talked about representing bits as states of a physical variable.
For example, my hand being low or high or the light being on and off.
And one of the things we have to agree on is how long for one bit
I'm going to hold my hand low or hold my hand high.
Obviously, the shorter that is, the faster I can send information.
But we need to agree on how long that's going to be.
Finally, we also talked about the idea of the training sequence.
The training sequence, remember, is an agreement
between the transmitter and the receiver.
The transmitter agrees that it will occasionally
transmit this training sequence, a known sequence which is known by the receiver
so really no information is being transferred.
But the receiver can use this training sequence
in order to identify information about the channel.
For example, we used it in our communication system
to set this decision threshold where we are
going to decide whether a bit was a zero or a one.
Now when we're transmitting information in a communication system,
we want to have some idea of how well the communication system is working.
And for that, we need some way of measuring
the performance of the communication system.
And so those measurements that we use were
what we talked about as being communication system metrics.
One of the key metrics that we talked about here was the bit rate.
We want the bit rate to be as high as possible
because that's really the rate at which we're transmitting information.
In order to transmit information very quickly, what we want
is the bit time, the time that we hold the physical variable constant
for to be as short as possible.
So the bit rate is inversely proportional to the bit time
which we measured in samples per bit.
The bit error rate is another measure of performance.
In this case, we want the bit error rate to be as small as possible
because the bit error rate tells us what fraction of bits
that we receive are received in error.
And obviously, we want to make as few errors as possible.
Now, it turns out that a very important concept in this course
was the idea of a trade-off.
You can't get anything for free.
And so although we'd like our bit rate to be as high as possible,
unfortunately, there's a trade-off with bit error rate.
The higher the bit rate, the higher the bit error rate.
That's reflected in this bottom curve down here.
And so, remember, we'd like to bit rate to be high,
but we'd like to bit error rate to be low.
And so the higher we push the bit rate, the higher the bit error rate.
And so that's going to put a limitation on how quickly we
can transmit information.
We saw that the exact shape of this curve
depends on the properties of the channel.
In particular, it depends on the amount of noise
in the channel and the signal power.
The less noisy the channel is, the more quickly we can send information.
That's shown down here.
The less noise that we have, we put down here,
the lower the amount of bit error rate we have.
And, therefore, from this curve, the faster
we can hopefully send information.
The other thing that we saw was that if we're in a noisy channel,
we know that, for example, in a party if I'm in a noisy party,
what do I have to do?
I have to speak louder in order to make sure
that my information is received correctly.
That idea of speaking louder we captured in the idea of signal power.
We saw that in a noisy environment, we need
to increase the signal power in order to decrease the number of errors.
Of course, there's a trade up there as well because if we're speaking louder,
we're going to get tired.
And the same way with our mobile phone.
If we're using more power to transmit, our battery is going to die faster.
And that's something that we don't want.
 