Hello, everybody.
Welcome to the lab demo.
In the previous lab, we have observed how the additive noise will
change the distribution of the received signal.
In this lab, we are going to see how the additive noise will affect
the performance of our communication system.
To do that, let's first review how the receivers make decisions.
Basically, the receiver will set a threshold
and compare the received signal with the threshold
If the received signal is less than the threshold the receiver will say,
I received bit 0.
And if the received signal is greater than the threshold
the receiver will say, I received bit 1.
Without additive noise, the two signal components
we used to represent bit 0 and bit 1 are clearly separated.
So if we put the threshold in the middle, between the two signal levels,
we are not going to get any error.
However, with the additive noise, the distribution
of the received signal for bit 0 and bit 1
are no longer fixed, but two Gaussian distribution.
That means what?
That means even if we transmit bit 0, after adding the additive noise,
the received signal can be greater than a threshold.
And then we are going to have an error.
The same situation happens for the case when we transmit bit 1.
So now, let's see how the additive noise will affect our communication system
by checking the bit error rate performance.
For that purpose, I first define the bit duration to be 50 microseconds.
Then we run the code to check to bit error rate performance.
First, we can observe that after transmitting the frame signals,
the received signals follow two Gaussian distribution
for the case of transmitting bit 0 and bit 1
because there is almost no overlap.
So we do not expect any error.
Now let's check what is the bit error performance.
Indeed, the measured bit error performance is 0.
Now, we want to investigate the effect of the transmission distance
on the performance of our communication system.
For that purpose, I'm going to simply increase
the transmission distance between the transmitter and the board
and run the same code again.
We can observe that the two distributions corresponding
to the transmission of bit 0 and bit 1 now have a big overlap.
So we are now expecting a worse performance.
Let's check.
Yes, indeed.
They measured bit error rate now is 0.11953.
What does this mean?
This means on average, we're going to obtain 12 errors out
of a transmission of 100 bits.
This makes sense, because when we increase the transmission distance,
we're going to get a lower signal power and then a worse performance.
Do we have similar examples in our daily life?
Let's try this one.
Imagine that I want to say hello to you.
So for the first time, I use a low voice, by saying, hello.
Can you hear me clearly?
Normally not.
Now let's try it again.
And this time, I increase my voice by saying, hello.
Did you get a better message for the second time?
Yes.
Why?
Because in the second time, you have a higher signal to noise ratio.