 
Hello everybody.
Welcome to the lab demo.
As we know communication protocol plays an important role
in the design of a communication system.
This is because of the following reasons.
Firstly, the transmitter and the receiver must agree on the rules where
at the transmitter side how we represent the information by the waveform.
On the receiver side, we also need to agree
on the rules about how to recover the information from the waveform.
Secondly, the training sequence, the start bit or the end bit
can help us to estimate the channel and also synchronize
the transmitter and the receiver.
So in this lab demo, we will see how we can create a frame
signal by implementing several communication protocols.
So basically what we are going to do is we
are going to include the training sequence, the start bit, and the end
bit to an information sequence.
So let's start by generating the information sequence.
The function we use here is the rand() function.
So basically, this command will generate an information sequence of 1,280 bits.
The command, rand() here, will generate a random variable,
which is uniformly distributed between zero and one.
By comparing this random variable with the threshold 0.5,
we can obtain a new random variable, which takes on the value
zero and one with equal probability 0.5.
So basically the sequence bs here will serve
as the information sequence for our communication purpose.
Next, we define the parameter, samples per bit to SPB
equals one just for ease of illustration.
Then we can create the frame signal by using the command, format_bitseq.
 
Now let's look at what the frame signal looks like.
 
Basically, we can see that the frame signal starts from the training
sequence which includes 500 zeros, 500 ones, and again, 500 zeros.
Recall that the sampling frequency we use is one megahertz.
So here the 500 zeros will correspond to 500 microseconds.
Next, we will observe the effect of the parameter, samples per bit.
Basically, we're going to change the value of SPB.
So we change the value, SPB, to SPB equals five.
We generate the frame again.
Now let's see what the new frame looks like.
 
So basically, by comparing the two frame signals,
we can observe that the frame structure doesn't change.
What changes is the information sequence.
To be more specific, it is the length of the information sequence.
So basically, the length of the new information sequence
is five times that of the previous one.
So basically, we can regard a frame as railway cars,
and the information sequence are the passengers here.
So we hope the frame can carry the passengers, which
is our information, from the transmitter to the receiver side.