 
In topic two, what we saw was that we can
represent waveforms in discrete time.
We can go back and forth from continuous time to discrete time.
And we also saw that once we adopt this kind of discrete time representation,
we can represent a wide variety of different waveforms using
sums and differences of unit steps.
So now we're ready to start analyzing mathematically the communication
channel that we talked about in topic one.
And we're going to start then by talking about what
we mean by a discrete time channel.
So let's go back to what we talked about in topic one
and look at the communication system.
So remember that we had a communication system transmitting information
from a source to a destination.
We have information to send that we transmit in terms of bits.
And that information then is turned into a physical waveform.
And then the physical waveform is sent over the channel where
the channel modifies the properties of that physical waveform,
so that what's received is not the same as what's sent.
But the job of the receiver then, is to try to figure out, well,
from this, which doesn't look the same as this, what was actually sent over here?
So it has to look at this and try to guess what was sent.
And so when we're going to analyze this thing,
we're going to look at it in discrete time.
So what we can see here is that we don't have
quite a discrete time description over here.
So let's break this system apart into a discrete time part
and a continuous time part.
And that's shown over here where we've taken the transmitter and the receiver
and we've broken them both into two different parts.
And so if we look at this part here, we're
again taking the information, which we are encoding as bits.
We're receiving information over here.
And at the far end here, we have a continuous time waveform
that's being sent over the channel that's being modified.
But if we look over here at the signal that's being modified,
we want to represent things in discrete time.
And we know that to go from continuous time into discrete time,
we do that by a process of sampling.
We take regular measurements of the signal.
And so instead of getting this continuous waveform over here,
we get this discrete waveform that's only
defined at particular multiples of the sampling instant.
We can take the bit sequence and we can represent that as a bit waveform.
And we saw how we can do that, how we can convert
from a verbal description of, let's say, a particular bit
sequence at a particular number of samples per bit
into some kind of representation here, either graphical or the formula
that we talked about.
And then what happens is that to go from discrete time to continuous time,
remember what we do is we do the hold.
So we take the value at this point in time,
and just to get a continuous time waveform between this point and this time,
we just hold that value for all these points in time
until the next sample we get this.
And you can see that we get that waveform over here.
So once we have this waveform over here, we send it over the channel,
and we get this one over here.
And so now, this is a continuous time channel, but what we're going to do
is we're going to kind of hide all the continuous time parts that we've
introduced and just talk about a conversion
from discrete time to discrete time over here.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to say this process of going
from a bit sequence to a discrete time waveform,
we're going to call this a discrete time transmitter.
That's going to give us a discrete time waveform.
That's going to go through this channel, which
remembering includes all of that conversion from discrete to continuous time
and so on.
But what we're going to do is we're going
to hide of all of those things in this one box
over here, which we're going to call the discrete time channel, that's just
going to take this discrete time waveform,
and get this discrete time waveform at the output.
And so then from this discrete time waveform,
we want the receiver here, the discrete time receiver
to come back and give us a sequence of received bits.
So the next thing we need to do then is somehow
come up with a way of describing how we go
from this kind of discrete time input to the channel
to the actual response of the channel on the other side of the channel,
at the receiver.
And we've already seen in topic two how we can represent this waveform
over here mathematically with these kinds of steps, unit steps, and so on.
And what we'd like to be able to do is given this formula over here,
get a formula that describes this actual response over here.
And we know that we'll have a good model, if two things are satisfied.
Number one, we'd like this equation here to be,
if not identical to this waveform over here, at least very close to that.
And the closer it is, the better the model's going to be.
But the other thing we want the model to do
is we want the model to be relatively simple.
That's because we, as engineers, are lazy.
We don't like to do too much extra work.
And so we like our jobs to be as simple as possible
when we're dealing with things, especially,
when we're dealing with more mathematical things.
Because we'd like to also, in addition to be doing prediction,
we also want to be building our understanding.
And so in fact, engineers use models all the time.
And modeling is a very important part of your engineering education.
In fact, engineers use models for many, many different kinds of uses.
One of them is to really understand the operation.
Of course, we can describe a channel in words,
but if we can also describe a channel using, let's
say a computer or mathematical equations,
then the more ways we can describe that channel the better we understand them.
It's just like, if I'm telling you a story,
the more ways I can tell you that story-- the more different ways--
for example, I can tell it to you verbally, or I can act it out,
or perhaps I can take a musical composition
and build a musical composition about that.
The more ways I can express that story to you,
the more nuances about that story you'll be able to understand.
And so engineers use models and different kinds of models, verbal,
computer, mathematical models in much the same way.
But because of the fact that we're actually using mathematical models
that gives us the ability to predict the performance of a system.
And so once we have that prediction, we can answer questions
like for this particular system, how quickly can I transmit information
over that particular channel?
What are the limitations of the information transmission
over that channel?
And once I know the limitations of the system
and what's causing those limitations, because I
have that better understanding.
Then that opens the door for us as engineers to take the next step.
And that's really what we as engineers do is the design step.
What we do is we develop modifications to the system that
actually improve performance.
So instead of being satisfied with transmitting information
at a particular rate, maybe what I can do is modify the system,
so I can improve the rate at which I can transmit information.