 
So what we've done is we've given you two ways of describing the channel.
And what we'd like to know is, are these two ways
of describing the channel in fact equivalent.
In other words, do they predict the exact same output for the same input?
And so let's review the two models and talk
about how we're going to prove that these two things are equivalent.
So in Model 1, what we said is we have a channel
which is linear and time invariant.
And we also know that it has a certain step response given
by this exponential equation over here.
In Model 2, we have that the input is x of n.
And the output is just given by a recursive channel
model that looks like this one over here, which is the formula
that we talked about in the last part.
Now, how are we going to establish that these two things are equivalent?
The way that we can establish that these two things are equivalent
is by showing that, if you look at Model 2,
we want to show that, well, is it the same as Model 1.
Well, it's going to be the same, if it's linear and time invariant,
and it has this step response s of n.
In that case, then these two things will be equivalent.
So let's start out by looking at that.
And so the first thing we need to do then
is we need to establish whether it's linear and time invariant.
And so in order to prove that it's linear and time invariant,
we have to show two things separately, one that it's
linear and secondly that it's time invariant.
Now, intuitively, if I look at this equation over here, I might say,
well, you know, it looks linear.
Because of the fact that if I look at y of n over here
and I look at the expression over here, I
don't see anything like any square terms or anything
that you can consider not linear, like a cosine or anything like that,
or x cubed or anything that.
So this one kind of looks linear, it just takes a value here
and multiplies it by a constant, takes a value here
and multiplies it by a constant.
So those are the kinds of things we associate with linear equations.
Formally, what we have to do, though, is to show that it's a linear system,
we have to show that it satisfies the two properties of linear systems
that we talked about before, homogeneity and additivity.
So let's do that now.
What we'll do now is we'll first prove homogeneity.
And so remember, the idea of homogeneity was that if I take an input x of n
and that produces an output y of n, then if I take that input and I scale it
by c, then what I'll get is the exact same output, except scaled by c.
So the idea here was that if I say something
and I put it into a system, what you'll hear is going to be something.
If I say exactly the same thing with a louder volume,
then you'll hear exactly the same thing.
It'll just be louder.
And so can we prove this thing?
So by the definition of Model 2, we know that if I have this particular input
x of n, then the output y of n will be described by this equation over here.
I can take this equation over here, and I
can multiply the left and the right sides by c.
So if I can take this and multiply this by c, multiply the right side by c,
I get c times this plus c times this.
It's just distributing the multiplication
over the two different terms.
And so, in the end, I get this equation over here.
And if I look at this equation over here, what you can see
is that by comparing this equation and this equation over here,
you can see that these are exactly the same.
The only difference is I've replaced x of n by c times x of n,
and y of n or y of n minus one, by c times that.
And so what that means then is that if I put in c times x of n
into this equation, what I'll get at the output is c times y of n.
So that's exactly the idea of homogeneity.
To prove additivity, what we can do is I put in an input x₁.
And that gives me an output, y₁.
And if I put in a different input, x₂, that gives me a different output y₂.
If I add these two things together, x₁ plus x₂,
and I put that into the system, then what I get at the output of the system
is exactly y₁ plus y₂, or the sum of the outputs
of each one of these applied individually.
Remember, this is what we'd used or exploited
when we were trying to combine those step response
outputs to predict the output of the channel.
So what can we prove that Model 2 also satisfies this kind of additivity.
Well, by the definition of Model 2, I know
that if the input here is x₁ and produces output y₁,
then this is the equation for the recursive channel model.
I've just replaced x by x₁ and y by y₁.
I can do exactly the same thing here, replace x by x₂ and y by y₂,
and I get this equation here.
And then, I can add these two equations together.
So if I add these two things together, I get
y₁ plus y₂ equals to this one plus this one is a times y₁ plus y₂.
And one minus a times k times x₁ plus x₂.
And so now if I look at this equation here,
this one here looks exactly the same as this one here.
The only difference is I've replaced y₁ by y₁ plus y₂ and x₁ by x₁ plus x₂.
And so what that implies, then, is that if I put in x₁ plus x₂ into Model 2,
what I'll get out at the output is y₁ plus y₂.
So what we've done is we've shown that the system is
linear by showing that it satisfies those two properties of homogeneity
and additivity.
Now, we'd like to talk about is the system time invariant.
Now, intuitively, if we look at this equation,
we might say that this system seems to be
time invariant, because these values of a and k don't change with time
or don't change with n.
So remember, the value k is scaling the input, and the value a
is this memory parameter.
And if the memory parameter doesn't change over time
and the scaling doesn't change over time,
then maybe if we put in the same input just delayed
by a certain amount of time, then we should get the same output.
And so formally, that's what we have to prove.
We have to prove that if we delay the input by d,
the output will be exactly the same, just delayed by d.
So to prove that, what we can do is we can start out with this system here,
x of n going into the system producing y of n.
And if the system is time invariant, then
it must be true that if I take x of n minus d,
I get the same output, just delayed by d or y of n minus d.
And so what we need to do is show that Model 2 satisfies this.
So we know that by the definition of Model 2
that the relationship between the input and the output
is given by this equation over here.
And what we can do is we can just replace n by n minus d.
And if we do that, then we get an n minus d here, we get an n minus d here,
and we get an n minus d here.
And if I take this equation and I compare it with this one,
it's exactly the same equation, except that I've taken x of n minus
d and replaced the x of n here and y of n minus d and replaced this one here.
And so what that means, then, if I put into the system x of n
minus d, then the output will be y of n minus d.
And so now, I've proven that the system is time invariant.
And so then, the final step then, remember, there's two parts of Model 1.
One is that it's linear time invariant.
And the second part is that it has a certain step response.
So to complete the proof of equivalence, what we need to do
is given that we know that the system is linear and time invariant,
we need to prove that it has the same step response.
And so in this oral part of the lectures, what I'll do
is I'll just go through one particular example, where
we assume a particular value of a and k.
And then, in the online materials, we'll give you
a more formal proof in written material that
is using more mathematical, formal reasoning based on induction.
So let's take a look at this example.
And so what we want to show is that the response of the two models
is exactly the same for the unit step input.
So remember, the unit step input is this input that's zero for all time,
less than zero, and then is equal to one for all time equal to zero and afterwards.
And so if the input has been zero long time,
it's a good assumption then that at time minus one, the output is equal to zero.
And so, we're going to start with that thing.
And we're going to go through the two models,
or let's say five or six times steps, and show you
that they give you actually the same response.
And so for Model 1.
It really doesn't matter.
Model 1 is just an equation, so it doesn't really matter what y minus one
is.
And so for Model 1, we just simply take this equation,
and we stick in the value of n into this point over here.
So at time zero, what we get is s at time zero is one minus 1/2.
And when n is equal to zero, I get zero plus one, or one.
And so this is one minus 1/2, which is 1/2.
And then at time one, the only difference is I get one plus one, or two.
And so I get 1/2 squared or 1/4 in this point here.
And one minus 1/4 is 3/4.
And then just going on, I get 1/2 cubed, or 1/8.
And one minus 1/8 is 7/8.
Then I get 1/16.
one minus 1/16 is 15/16.
And you can see the trend here.
It will be 31/32, and then 63/64, and then 127/128.
So each time what happens is that we double the denominator
and then subtract one to get the numerator.
So for Model 2, we use this assumption that y minus one is equal to zero.
If the input here is a one, then I know that y of n
is equal to 1/2 y of n minus one plus 1/2 times the input.
But the input for all time zero and onward is equal to one.
And so I'm just going to put the 1/2 there.
So now at time minus one, I have zero.
And so now, I know that at time zero, what I get is 1/2 times that value of zero,
or zero plus 1/2, or 1/2, which is exactly the same thing as I get here.
Then, I take that value of 1/2, I multiply that here by 1/2.
So I get 1/4, and I add it to 1/2, or the same thing as 2/4, and I get 3/4.
Then, I take that value and repeating the recursion, I divide by two.
So I get 3/8.
And then, I add that to 1/2, or the same as 4/8, I get 7/8.
I again divide that by 1/2.
I get seven divided by 16.
I add that to eight, divided by 16.
I get 15 divided by 16.
And now, you can see that the trend is exactly the same.
So if I continue this on for all future time steps,
I'm going to get 31 divided by 32, 63/64, and so on.
So now, you can see that if I put in a unit step into Model 2,
I'm getting exactly the same responses, at least for these first five.
And you can see the trend is going to continue.
And it's going to exactly match the equation
that I specify for the step response over here.
And so that shows you that the two things have exactly the same step
response.
So then in summary, what we've done is we've
given you two models for the channel.
Model 1 is based on the two assumptions that the channel is linear and time
invariant.
And it has a particular form of the step response given by that.
Model 2 is this recursive channel model, where
we say that it has a certain input x of n.
And I can take this recursive model, or this formula,
and then predict what the output of the channel
is at time n based on the input at time n and the previous output.
And we've proven in this lecture that these two things are equivalent.
Moving forward, what we'll do is we'll say, well, can we use this model here,
since this model is the same as this model.
These are both equivalent models for the channel.
Can we use this model over here to develop the equalizer?