 
In this topic, I'd like to take what we learned about the communication channel
that we modeled in the last session and extend that and look
at how we can communicate information over that channel.
And so let's just review.
What we saw was that the communication channel can be modeled in this way.
We have the sender who creates a bit stream
and then creates a waveform that goes over this linear time invariant system.
And then at the receiver, what's received
is not only that signal, but some external signals also coming
from the environment.
And in this case, I'm just going to model that as a constant,
because we're going to add the effect of time-varying noise later on.
And once we have those two things combined in an additive matter,
we'll get this waveform over here.
And the question then we want to ask is, how can we recover the original bit
stream from this waveform over here?
In fact, what we'll have is this graph here,
and we won't really have the formula.
But the formula is a way, if we know the input, to get the formula over here.
But we'll be using this knowledge of how we go from here to here
in order to develop our communication model.
So in order to start answering that, what we need to do
is start looking at, well, what happens when the channel actually responds
to a particular bit sequence or just one bit.
And so here we show a bit, goes to zero to one, and then goes back down to zero.
And we see that the response of the channel-- shown in black over here--
doesn't look exactly like this, as we said.
It doesn't go from zero to one but from some level c to c plus k.
And then it doesn't change instantaneously, but it changes slowly.
And then the question is, well, how can we take this waveform in black
and recover the original bit stream?
And very much entwined with this discussion
is going to be the idea of what's called the communication protocol.
So what a protocol is, it's an agreement or a set of rules
that we follow during a communication.
And protocols apply to any kind of communication,
whether it be a wireless communication system like we're talking about
in this class or human-to-human communication
or the kind of communication that we have
when we are dealing with communicating from me to you in this online forum.
So, for example, if we think about some of the questions of what
are the protocols that we use for me to communicate with you,
they might be things like when you turn the video on and you hear me speaking,
you expect me to be speaking in a particular language--
in this case, English.
And if I was speaking in some other language that you didn't understand,
we wouldn't be able to communicate.
Another example might be where you find the videos for this course.
They're on the edX platform, and they're not
on some other platform, for example, like YouTube.
So you know where to find it so that I can communicate with you
and you can receive the message that I'm trying to send to you.
So when we talk about our particular data communication system,
then the protocols cover all aspects of the communication system.
And I've listed several of those here.
And they include things like how do we represent text characters.
Last time we talked about the ASCII code.
But I told you last time, as well, that there
are more complex codes to deal with the fact
that we have many, many more characters than were originally
designed in the ASCII code.
And so, for example, one of the coding systems that's in use commonly now
is the Unicode system.
The other aspect that you might consider would
be the order in which bit sequences are sent.
For example, if you're sending binary numbers,
do you send the least significant bit first or the most significant bit
first?
And in terms of the performance of how quickly you can communicate
information, it doesn't really matter which one you choose.
But you have to make sure that when you choose one,
you follow that standard and that your receiver knows
that so he can understand what the number is that you're sending.
And so there are many, many other things listed here.
And in particular, in this particular topic, what I'd like to talk about
is two things.
One is the training sequence, and the other one is the synchronization method
that we need to use and need to agree on in order
to do any kind of communication.